    CIP: 9
    Title: To-All Transactions
    Author: PoCC/rico666 (bots@cryptoguru.org)
    Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
    Comments-URI: https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0009
    Status: Draft
    Type: Consensus (hard fork)
    Created: 2018-07-16

## Abstract

To-All transactions are a way of interaction of a single individual
(address) with the Burst community in its entirety (all addresses). A
To-All transaction triggers a payment of a sum X that is being
proportionally disseminated among all existing addresses with funds
above a certain threshold.

> Lost coins only make everyone else's coins worth slightly
  more. Think of it as a donation to everyone.

*<div style="text-align: right">-- Satoshi Nakamoto</div>*

## Motivation

### Burning Burst

There is no efficient way to burn Burst coins. One could send them to
an address that is presumably without known private key (similar to
[1BitcoinEaterAddressDontSendf59kuE](https://www.blockchain.com/en/btc/address/1BitcoinEaterAddressDontSendf59kuE)
in Bitcoin), but you never know if that private key really does not
exist.

Another possibility is to send so small amounts to various addresses,
that it is by orders of magnitude more expensive to retrieve that
amount than its nominal value. Without any limits on "Dust" (see
[CIP8](cip-0008.md)), it is conceivable to "burn Burst" by
e.g. sending Multi-Out Same transactions with 1 Planck to random
addresses.

The minimum cost of burning these Burst is the same as is minimum
retrieval cost. E.g. currently a fully populated Multi-Out Same could
burn 128 Planck at the cost of 735000 Planck.

### Giving Burst Away

The quote above from Satoshi Nakamoto illustrates that a "forgotten
private key" is equivalent to *a donation to everyone*. So if an
individual performs such a donation to everyone and effectively burn
Burst for himself, we did achieve something equivalent to a "Proof of
Burn", but without actually losing the coins from the total supply.

### PoS: The Other side of the coin

If we look at a To-All transaction being a "Proof-of-Burn" (PoB), then
the complement on the recipient side is equivalent to Proof-of-Stake:
Accounts with a Burst balance get their share from these PoB events
proportional to their balance. In short, the more Burst you have, the
more you earn.

## Specification

Given an amount *M* of Burst to burn and the total supply being *N*.
The Dust threshold for accounts is computed as

    Balance > FEE_QUANT and
    Balance > N / (M * 100 000 000)

### Examples

Your account balance is FEE_QUANT or less: No matter how many Burst
are burnt, your account will receive no Plancks.

If the total supply (N) is 1980000000 and 1 (M) Burst is burnt, then
the 1-Planck threshold is for accounts that have a balance of 19.8
Burst.

Because to-all transactions will adhere to dust threshold
recommendations, in the case of burning one Burst, your lowest account
balance in the case above is FEE_QUANT * 19.8 BURST = 14,553,000 BURST

In the case 5000 BURST are burned, the lowest account balance to
receive Burst is 14,553,000 / 5,000 = 2910,60 BURST


### Dissemination Example


For simplicity, let's assume there are at this moment 5 accounts A₁,
..., A₅ in existence, where A₅ wants to send 5000 Burst "To-All" and
the accounts are with the following balances:

    A₁:    400 Burst
    A₂:    700 Burst
    A₃: 15 000 Burst
    A₄:  8 000 Burst
    A₅: 11 000 Burst

Then we have a total of 400+700+15000+8000+11000 = 35100 Burst in
existence. However, for our computations, we need to take the 5000
Burst to be sent out of the total sum to remove their
self-referentiality. This leaves us with the following percentages of
the accounts:

    A₁%:   0.01328903654485049834   (400/30100)
    A₂%:   0.02325581395348837209   (700/30100)
    A₃%:   0.49833887043189368771 (15000/30100)
    A₄%:   0.26578073089700996678  (8000/30100)
    A₅%:   0.19933554817275747508  (6000/30100)
    -------------------------------------------
    total: 1.0                    (30100/30100)
    ===========================================

On the current MainNet, the number of accounts is around 70000 and the
total Burst is the Burst mined so far ~ 1.96 bn Burst. The
computational effort is much higher but the same principle applies.

So A₅ paying 5000 Burst To-All, will result in the following layout of
transfers:

    A₁:   0.01328903654485049834 * 5000 =   66.44518272
    A₂:   0.02325581395348837209 * 5000 =  116.27906977
    A₃:   0.49833887043189368771 * 5000 = 2491.69435216
    A₄:   0.26578073089700996678 * 5000 = 1328.90365448
    A₅:   0.19933554817275747508 * 5000 =  996.67774086 + 1 Planck
                                          -------------
                                          4999.99999999 + 1 Planck


## Discussion

The current balance of Burst on the Poloniex and Bittrex exchange
accounts at the time of this publication (2018-08-17, see also
https://explore.burst.cryptoguru.org/chart/richlist) is around 57% of
the currently available supply.

This means that in case of a "To-All transaction", these exchange
accounts together would get 57% of the burned Burst. At the moment,
the exchanges most certainly have no process to propagate these
PoS-like earned Burst to the individual account holders (i.e. pass
them on).

The exchanges would be the biggest beneficiaries of To-all
transactions, while the users with Burst on these exchages would be
abstained from receiving the Burst they should, clearly there are two
possibe consequences:

1) get the exchanges to have the customers participate (pass it on)

or

2) get your Burst in your private wallet

As 2) is detrimental for the exchanges, we believe an arrangement can
be made, so exchanges implement 1)


## References

* [CIP8 - Define Tx and Balance "Dust](cip-0008.md)

## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain.
