    CIP: 3
    Title: Variable Slot-based Fees
    Author: PoCC/rico666 <bots@cryptoguru.org>
    Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
    Comments-URI: https://github.com/PoC-Consortium/CIPs/wiki/Comments:CIP-0003
    Status: Active
    Type: Hard Fork
    Created: 2018-04-26

## Abstract

The slot-based transaction fee system allows for variable fees
depending on the transaction load on the blockchain. As a secondary
goal it prevents spamming blocks with lots of transactions with
minimum fees.

## Motivation

As of December 2017, the transaction cost structure comparison between
Burstcoin and Bitcoin (1 BURST = ca. 150 Sat), shows 0.85 satoshi/Byte
in the Burstcoin network and therefore a roughly 317x higher cost for
Bitcoin block space and ca. 900x higher cost for network transactions,
as a Bitcoin transaction is roughly 500 bytes in size.

In Fiat, this means that at a price of around 3 US-cent per BURST, one
byte of payload costs 0.017 cent in the Burstcoin network and around
5.4 cent in the Bitcoin network. If the hardcoded tx cost for the
Burst network was to remain at 1 BURST minimum, Burst would reach the
same level of tx cost that Bitcoin has today at a price of 176 âˆ— 5.4 =
950.4 US-cent, therefore around $9.50.

If we look at todays price levels, Burstcoin miners were ensuring the
network for a maximum payment of 91800 Burst daily. On average, the
network has been doing around 5000 tx/day. So in addition to the block
reward, the transaction fee reward per day, for the whole Burstcoin
network is around $150 in December 2017. In order to cope with future
development of BURST price and transaction volume, a progressive tx
fee structure guideline is proposes, where wallets can decide and
priorize what transaction to include in the current block depending on
the fill-state of the current block and memory pool backlog. The
progressive approach opens the door for more on-chain
scalability. Instead of limiting the max. number of transactions to
255, we could now theoretically have an open limit and solve much of
the scalability issues blockchains have per se. Instead, a
conservative extension of the max. number of transactions to 1020
(4-fold) is proposed.

## Specification

### Compatibility

This is a hard forking change, thus breaks compatibility with old
fully-validating node. It should not be deployed without widespread
consensus.

### Memory-Related Parameters

1. fee quant

## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain.
